Can you imagine
how Adam must have felt
when he
was introduced to Eve?
Actually, we don’t have
to imagine how he felt.
We know that he
was overwhelmed with appreciation.
And he expressed his appreciation
in poetic terms
that are recorded in the Bible.
You remember the words:
“This is at last
bone of my bone
and flesh of my flesh.”
Think about it.
Adam and Eve
had a perfect marriage,
and together
they formed a perfect family.
Of course, with their disobedience,
all of that changed.
Instead of perfection,
they were confronted
with one another’s imperfections.
And in the instant that they
separated themselves from Jehovah,
they began to experience
stress and anxiety
that affected their relationship.
It is a testimony to Jehovah’s love
and wisdom
that despite imperfections
and despite
the stress and anxiety
that have only intensified
in these last days,
the family can still
be a source of joy
—a place of security
and stability.
But for that to happen,
each member of the family
must shoulder his load
of Scriptural responsibility.
In this symposium,
we’re going to consider husbands,
wives, parents, and children,
and how each of us can contribute
to the joy of the family.
To start,
let’s address husbands.
If you are a husband,
how do you view your wife?
Do you view her as Jehovah does?
Do you view her and feel about her
as Adam felt about Eve
when he first met her?
In fact, the Bible helps
us husbands appreciate
that our wives
are a gift from Jehovah.
Do you appreciate the gift?
And are you demonstrating
your appreciation?
For a few minutes this morning,
we’re going to consider four ways
that we husbands
can demonstrate
appreciation for the gift
Jehovah has given us.
If you’re taking notes,
here they are:
(1) It’s important that we assign
our wives honor;
(2) we must invest time
in our relationship;
(3) it’s important that we confine
our romantic interests to our wife;
and (4)
we have to be realistic
in our expectations.
Let’s consider these points
one at a time.
Turn, please, in your Bible
to 1 Peter chapter 3,
and we’re going to read verse 7:
“You husbands, in the same way,
“continue dwelling with them
according to knowledge.
“Assign them honor
as to a weaker vessel,
“the feminine one,
since they are also heirs
“with you
of the undeserved favor of life,
in order for your prayers
not to be hindered.”
Well, Peter leaves us in no doubt
as to who is being addressed,
“you husbands.”
That’s you and me.
He tells us that we
must continue dwelling
with our wives
“according to knowledge.”
The footnote in our Bible says:
“showing them consideration;
understanding them.”
How well do you know your wife?
What do you know
about her background, her upbringing?
You know
what makes her happy.
Do you know why?
You know what’s upsetting to her,
what causes anxiety.
Do you understand why?
It’s important
that we take the time
to get to know our wives
because only then
can we care for their physical,
emotional, and spiritual needs.
And only then can we do
what Peter next says in the verse,
and here’s our main point:
“Assign them honor.”
Assign your wife honor.
And then Peter says
“as to a weaker vessel.”
Now, what does Peter mean
when he refers
to the wife as a weaker vessel?
Do you think he’s betraying
some chauvinistic leaning?
No.
Because he’s already said
‘assign her honor.’
We could illustrate it this way:
Imagine that you have two bowls
exactly the same size,
exactly the same capacity,
but one is made of wood
and the other is made of a very fine,
very expensive porcelain
—both bowls,
both with the same capacity.
But would you handle both
in the same way?
No.
You recognize that the porcelain
is more valuable
and more fragile,
so you handle it
in a different way.
And that’s what Peter
is telling us about our wives.
She is the “weaker vessel,
the feminine one.”
In what way is she weaker?
Certainly not intellectually,
and certainly not spiritually.
Primarily in a physical sense,
we husbands have an advantage.
So we accord our wife honor.
That means we would never
get physical with her,
and certainly we would never
on a pretext pretend
to honor her in public
and then abuse her
in some way in private.
See, that would never work,
would it?
No.
We assign her honor at all times.
And here’s why.
Peter says:
“They are also heirs with you
of the undeserved favor of life.”
Husbands and wives
are on equal footing
before Jehovah
in a spiritual sense.
Both husbands and wives
must “[wash] their robes
and [make] them white
in the blood of the Lamb.”
Jesus did not die
more for husbands
than he did for wives.
And both husbands and wives
have the hope of everlasting life.
So we remember that.
If we don’t,
how does Peter conclude?
“In order for your prayers
not to be hindered.”
The point:
Our dealings with our wife
will have a direct impact
on our personal relationship
with Jehovah.
So assign her honor.
Value what she does for you
and for your family,
and demonstrate your appreciation.
Our second point:
Invest time in your relationship.
It’s so easy—isn’t it?—
for secular work,
theocratic assignments,
and association with others
to rob us of valuable time
that should be spent
with our wives.
Interestingly, when we
were getting to know one another, courting,
we were anxious
for one-on-one time.
That shouldn’t change
when we get married.
So buy out the time,
set it aside, and stick to it.
In that way,
you demonstrate your appreciation
for the gift Jehovah
has given you.
Our third point is highlighted
in Proverbs chapter 5.
So turn there with me, please.
Proverbs chapter 5
—and we’ll begin reading in verse 18:
“May your own fountain be blessed,
[and here’s the point]
“and may you rejoice
“with the wife of your youth,
“a loving doe,
a graceful mountain goat.
“Let her breasts
satisfy you at all times.
“[and then here
again is the point]
May you be captivated
by her love constantly.”
What is the point?
We must confine
our romantic interests
to our wife.
There is no other option.
We want to “rejoice
with the wife of [our] youth.”
We want to “be captivated
by her love.”
That means avoiding
overly-close relationships with other women,
and not just physical relationships
—texting,
videoconferencing,
telephone calls
all constitute a relationship.
So we’re very careful.
We set limits,
and we don’t go beyond them.
And confining
our romantic interests to our wife
includes rejecting
sexual fantasies involving others.
The world makes light
of such fantasizing.
But Jesus helped us to appreciate
that it’s a very serious matter.
You recall his words
in the Sermon on the Mount?
“[Anyone] who keeps on looking
“at a woman
so as to have a passion for her
has already committed adultery
. . . in his heart.”
The point:
Fantasizing is little more
than rehearsing.
So we reject such fantasies
knowing that they
violate Bible counsel,
including Jesus’ very pointed advice.
And they can prevent us
from rejoicing in our wife.
Finally, (4)
be realistic in your expectations.
We husbands are not perfect.
We know that.
Our wives are not perfect.
Don’t you appreciate it when your wife
smooths over your imperfections
and makes you look good?
Well, our wives appreciate it
when we do that for them.
So be alert
for opportunities to do that.
In the following dramatization,
notice how the husband
rejoices in his wife.
I was trying to get caught up on paperwork
for the circuit overseer’s visit.
There was so much to do.
You have to be kidding me.
Oh, you’re home early, Honey.
I sensed something was wrong.
The kids had left a few things out,
and I was a bit preoccupied.
Tough day?
You were supposed to talk
to the girls about this.
They’re making it a habit.
The more I thought about it, though,
I realized it wasn’t just the kitchen.
I guess I was part of the problem.
Or maybe the problem was me.
You see, my wife
is an amazing woman,
so loving.
It would be an understatement
to call her industrious.
And then there’s her infectious joy.
I mean, how could I not love her?
But sometimes it takes
more than saying, “I love you.”
You know, Honey, you’re right.
This is completely unacceptable.
I’ll talk to the girls
as soon as they come through that door.
Thank you. I love you.
I love you too.
Did you notice how the husband
in the video rejoiced in his wife?
He reflected
on her many good works
—her devotion to Jehovah,
the good acts
that she performed for others,
her fine work
in behalf of her family,
her spontaneous joy
that made her
even more beautiful to him.
And as he reflected
on all of those fine things,
what happened?
His appreciation
for his gift deepened,
and he was motivated
to do something about it.
That’s a beautiful example for us.
So rejoice in your wife
by assigning her honor,
by investing time
in your relationship,
by confining
your romantic interests to your wife,
and by being realistic
in your expectations.
If you do, your marriage
and your family
will continue to be
a source of joy,
a place of stability,
and a place of security.
Brother Patrick LaFranca,
a helper to the Personnel Committee
of the Governing Body,
will present the next talk
of the symposium,
“Cultivate Joy in Your Family
—Wives, Rejoice
in Your Husband.”